---
id: redwood-file-structure
title: "Redwood File Structure"
sidebar_label: "Redwood File Structure"
---

Let's take a look at the files and directories that were created for us (config files have been excluded for now):

```terminal
├── api
│   ├── db
│   │   ├── schema.prisma
│   │   └── seed.js
│   └── src
│       ├── directives
│       │   ├── requireAuth
│       │   └── skipAuth
│       ├── functions
│       │   └── graphql.js
│       ├── graphql
│       ├── lib
│       │   └── db.js
│       └── services
└── web
    ├── public
    │   ├── README.md
    │   ├── favicon.png
    │   └── robots.txt
    └── src
        ├── Routes.js
        ├── components
        ├── index.css
        ├── index.html
        ├── App.js
        ├── layouts
        └── pages
            ├── FatalErrorPage
            │   └── FatalErrorPage.js
            └── NotFoundPage
                └── NotFoundPage.js
```

At the top level we have two directories, `api` and `web`. Redwood separates the backend (`api`) and frontend (`web`) concerns into their own paths in the codebase. ([Yarn refers to these as "workspaces"](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/workspaces/). In Redwood, we refer to them as "sides.") When you add packages going forward you'll need to specify which workspace they should go in. For example (don't run these commands, we're just looking at the syntax):

    yarn workspace web add marked
    yarn workspace api add better-fs

### The /api Directory

Within `api` there are two directories:

- `db` contains the plumbing for the database:

  - `schema.prisma` contains the database schema (tables and columns)
  - `seed.js` is used to populate your database with any data that needs to exist for your app to run at all (maybe an admin user or site configuration).

  After we add our first database table there will also be a SQLite database file named `dev.db` and a directory called `migrations` created for us. `migrations` contains the files that act as snapshots of the database schema changing over time.

- `src` contains all other backend code. `api/src` contains five more directories:
  - `directives` will contain GraphQL [schema directives](https://www.graphql-tools.com/docs/schema-directives) for controlling access to queries and transforming values.
  - `functions` will contain any [lambda functions](https://docs.netlify.com/functions/overview/) your app needs in addition to the `graphql.js` file auto-generated by Redwood. This file is required to use the GraphQL API.
  - `graphql` contains your GraphQL schema written in a Schema Definition Language (the files will end in `.sdl.js`).
  - `lib` contains one file, `db.js`, which instantiates the Prisma database client. You are free to send additional options, if necessary. You can use this directory for other code related to the API side that doesn't fit in `functions` or `services`.
  - `services` contains business logic related to your data. When you're querying or mutating data for GraphQL, that code ends up here, but in a format that's reusable in other places in your application.

That's it for the backend.

### The /web Directory

- `src` contains several subdirectories:
  - `components` contain your traditional React components as well as Redwood _Cells_ (more about those soon).
  - `layouts` contain HTML/components that wrap your content and are shared across _Pages_.
  - `pages` contain components and are optionally wrapped inside _Layouts_ and are the "landing page" for a given URL (a URL like `/articles/hello-world` will map to one page and `/contact-us` will map to another). There are two pages included in a new app:
    - `NotFoundPage.js` will be served when no other route is found (see `Routes.js` below).
    - `FatalErrorPage.js` will be rendered when there is an uncaught error that can't be recovered from and would otherwise cause our application to really blow up (normally rendering a blank page).
  - `index.css` is a generic place to put your CSS, but there are many options.
  - `index.html` is the standard React starting point for our app.
  - `App.js` the bootstrapping code to get our Redwood app up and running.
  - `Routes.js` the route definitions for our app which map a URL to a _Page_.
- `public` contains assets not used by React components (they will be copied over unmodified to the final app's root directory):
  - `favicon.png` is the icon that goes in a browser tab when your page is open (apps start with the RedwoodJS logo).
  - `robots.txt` can be used to control what web indexers are [allowed to do](https://www.robotstxt.org/robotstxt.html).
  - `README.md` explains how, and when, to use the `public` folder for static assets. It also covers best practices for importing assets within components via Webpack. You can also [read this README.md file on GitHub](https://github.com/redwoodjs/create-redwood-app/tree/main/web/public).

