fix(auth): Allows RedwoodAuthCurrentUserQuery when using Auth, GraphQL and Trusted Documents (#10817) by @dthyresson

This PR allows authentication to function as expected when using Trusted Documents.

See issue #10816 above for more detail.

One way to solve is to allow an arbitrary ad-hoc query -- but just a very narrow and well-defined (aka trusted so-to-speak) one.

The plgin for persisted operations lets one define what can bypass trusted docs hash id checks: https://the-guild.dev/graphql/yoga-server/docs/features/persisted-operations#allowing-arbitrary-graphql-operations

So, we can use that in the useTrustedDocuments plugin to just allow that specific request.

const REDWOOD__AUTH_GET_CURRENT_USER_QUERY =
  '{"query":"query __REDWOOD__AUTH_GET_CURRENT_USER { redwood { currentUser } }"}'
When using Redwood Auth, we want to allow the known, trusted redwood.currentUser query to be executed without a persisted operation.

This is because the currentUser query is a special case that is used to get the current user from the auth provider.

We'll check if the request is for the currentUser query and has the correct headers which are set by the useCurrentUser hook in the auth package.

The usePersistedOperations plugin relies on this function to determine if a request should be allowed to execute via its allowArbitraryOperations option.

By checking for that very exact string, and that there is a content type header, an auth-provider header and an authorization header then we can allow this to execute.

The auth provider will still be used by the apes getCurrentUser resolver to determine if the credentials whatever they are are valid.
